---
title: 4096 Weeks
date: 2024-06-01 10:45:00 +0200
categories: [development]
tags: [micropython, svg, javascript]
---

# 4096

Having read "Four Thousand Weeks: Time Management for Mortals" by Oliver Burkeman I was inspired to create something to help remind me of the books underlying message that "average human lifespan is absurdly, insultingly brief." It is not as bleak as it sounds, the author uses the book to stress that time-management should not be about how we can crank through as many emails as we can, nor how we can add more things to our todo lists, he focuses on how we can use our finite time (approximately 4000 weeks if we are lucky) to live a more meaningful life.

This project has two sides, the first is physical, and takes the form on a led display, the second a very simple microsite that I can check in on when not at home. By design they look very similar and rely on the fact that 4000 is close to the much more geekily satisfying 4096 (i.e. a 64 by 64 grid).

## LED Grid

LEDs are everywhere, and one use of them are the giant LED displays. These are often formed of much smaller grids, and driven by microcontrollers. I had a 64 by 64 grid I could salvage from an ealier project (an [led sand toy](https://learn.adafruit.com/matrix-led-sand/overview)). When paired with a RP2040 microcontroller and driver board from Pimoroni. I could create a simple reminder that life is short - enjoy it!

### Notes

- the [code](https://github.com/startung/4096-weeks/tree/main/led) is in micropython
- uses a real time clock, based on the DS3231 to ensure it keeps time even when unplugged
- ensure your personal information is not sent to git hub

### Future Plans

- switch to wifi version of the microcontroller to simplify the updating and allow for syncing with a network time server

## Microsite

I little single page site. It takes the start date (i.e. your date of birth) from the URI parameter d. so if you were born on the 13th of January 2000, the you would use [rawlings.cloud/4096?2000-01-13](https://rawlings.cloud/4096?2000-01-13). It is a very simple site that aims to mimic the physical led grid. This is acheived through rendering the grid as an SVG then using JavaScript to alter the SVG to fit the dates.

### Notes

- the [code](https://github.com/startung/4096-weeks/tree/main/web), is very simple, just a single page of HTML, with a SVG image and a touch of JavaScript and CSS
- this could be done without the SVG, by rendering a serives of small divs, however, it is supposed to be an image so I choose to give the div a day off

### Future Plans

- add some key milestones (white leds)
